hi and welcome to this episode on
getting started with your Komodo Joe I'm
your host the Grateful griller and
thanks so much for joining me today I'm
going to explain some basic tips on
direct grilling with your Komodo Joe but
first we need some essentials on deck in
order to get started first a good pair
of grilling tongs are great to move food
around the grill with easy to hold with
one hand while your other hands
clutching a cold beverage second thing a
clean and durable cutting board it's
great for all your food prep and it
makes transferring food from inside to
deck side a cinch three couple of clean
towels for those unforeseen messes for a
sharp knife because it's a must and
finally a safe and efficient workspace
once you have these things dialed in we
can get down to some grilling to set
your kimono drill up for a basic grill
session you'll want to fill your firebox
just above the air holes with tamato Joe
premium lump charcoal and light your
fire with Komodo Joe non-toxic fire
starter never use lighter fluid as it'll
simply impart nasty taste of your food
and do nothing good for your cooker once
the fire is lit open your bottom and top
vents all the way for maximum airflow
wait 10 to 15 minutes and then start
manipulating the vents accordingly to
find your desired temperature 3 to 400
degrees is the most common direct
grilling temperature and you'll be able
to grill a huge variety of foods at
these temperatures a couple of other
things to note when you're cooking above
temperatures of 500 degrees you'll want
to avoid something called flashback
that's what happens when your lid is
opened up too quickly and a rush of
oxygen gets into your cooker and comes
back at you in the form of white heat
totally avoidable
all you want to do is lift your lid just
a couple of inches like that air the
vessel as I call it wait four or five
seconds and then proceed to open the lid
all the way that way you stay safe and
you'll have a great time all the time
there's nothing better than a thick
t-bone steak sided with a delicious fish
kabob on a day like this but before we
put the food on the grill I want to
focus your attention on two additional
accessories in the comodo Joe family
that'll definitely take your grilling
games higher the first is called the
grill expander it'll increase your
overall cooking surface by 60% it's made
of the same 304 stainless steel that
your existing grill grate is made of and
it sits right on top of that grill it's
cleans up in a cinch
it stores really easily the second
accessory is called a metal stand now
this is packaged and shipped with your
heat deflector its main purpose is to
raise your existing grill grate four
inches from the fire so all those foods
you're worried about chari you don't
have to worry anymore so what are we
waiting for
let's get grilling
Oh
you
this brings us to the end of this
episode and I wanna personally thank you
for joining me we want to make sure you
get the most out of your kimono Jo so
please do check out our other videos
there's a topic of interest or a
particular question you have simply go
to WWE my comm you guaranteed to find a
friendly engaging customer service
oriented
not to mention passionate guerrilla at
kimono Jo headquarters on behalf of
comodo Jo I'm the Grateful griller
reminding you to feed the fire and the
desire to take your grilling games
higher if this doesn't ignite your
passion for grilling I don't know what
will
you